foreign
diving in so
um you know we're operating under the
assumption that marketing teams should
drive Revenue here uh it's an expensive
team with a large budget but it also has
a huge potential to contribute to the
bottom line and drive real growth for
businesses
as we've recently learned we have to be
really effective and efficient with that
budget so the growth of the growth at
all cost mindset of you know previous
generations of marketers
um has gotten us into trouble and
sustainability is the way forward
so sustainable growth is achieved
through balancing a bunch of things
um we have to drive immediate results
while we plan for long-term success we
have to get in front of people who
happen to be in Market but we also have
to show up where they're actively
searching for what we offer and we have
to invest in channels that you know
scale predictably with inputs where a
dollar in results in X dollars out but
we also want to have channels that
compound over time like a 401k you put
in an investment and overtime
the results scale exponentially and
three channels that do this are brand
SEO and community so that's what we're
talking about today
brand
there's all of this amazing eloquent
advice about what brand is we know now
that it's not just colors and font and
t-shirts with your logo on it
um brand is what people say about you
when you're not in the room but that's
not particularly actionable
um what does that mean for early stage
marketers how do you drive sustainable
growth with brand
in my experience a few things need to be
true so on first of all I believe that
you have to sacrifice demand sometimes
in order for bran to work bran should
have a specific purpose a specific goal
and it should not be lead gen two you
need to get full blind from your
leadership team because brand
projects don't necessarily have a media
or even sometimes trackable Roi need to
make sure that the people who are
holding you accountable for your goals
know this and then lastly brand projects
and campaigns I think should stand on
their own two legs like they should add
value to people regardless of if they're
a customer or not
so to dive into a real life example from
this from my time at my store QA we had
an event series called The Art of
conversation Meister QA is a quality
assurance and coaching software for
Frontline customer support agents that
helps them have really good
conversations with customers over time
um and so our goal and our brand purpose
for this event was to enable support
teams to orchestrate these amazing
conversations at scale even if they
weren't a customer
and you know we had to get creative to
make this happen so on the one hand we
basically removed all of our lead gen
goals from the picture for a few months
and everything we were doing was driving
people to this event so our SDR team was
even spiffed on registrations
um you know instead of them trying to
drive demos and we had to partner with
the whole company to make it possible
like RCS team our customer success team
was driving customer
registration we had our success people
speaking our CEO spoke it really was
like a full company project
and we tried to really build something
that could stand on its own so there was
a distinct brand identity and we tried
to adhere to creating something of value
regardless of whether or not someone was
a customer
so here are some quick examples of that
so The Branding was distinct from our
company brand it was similar but it was
its own thing
um and the session titles and topics we
tried to avoid mentioning Maestro at all
actually which is incredibly
uncomfortable and unnatural for
marketers but what we really wanted to
do was present people at companies who
were solving real problems that others
are probably facing as well in a
multitude of ways one of those ways
would ideally be with our software but
like not necessarily and no need to shot
it from the rooftops you know
um and then this is just an example of
full company buy-in you know our CEO
moderated this panel with me undies
where they were talking about how
they used quality assurance and a growth
mindset to unlock improvements in you
know a certain metric That Matters to
them
um and having our CEO on a panel with
such a great customer of ours just like
built a lot of trust you know it's the
same with your customer success team and
it demonstrates your
knowledge as a business
and the outcomes are huge you know brand
looks a number of ways today I'm talking
specifically about events and the impact
that this specific event had but I think
like this can be applied to a lot of
other types of brand projects as well
um in our case here so we had 20
customers who spoke on our behalf
building brand advocacy and relationship
touch points with our internal team
um we had four hours of Engagement
across 400 attendees
um
I mean I dare you to ask someone a
customer facing person on your team to
ask a customer or a prospect to join you
for four hours in a single day like
that's not gonna happen
um but by providing value outside of
your tool you do get that type of
Engagement which is pretty amazing
um and then you know projects like this
create a foot in the door where you
might not be able to get one for example
at this time Maestro we were like a
three million dollar business I think we
had less than 40 employees like we were
small small fries
um but someone from Nike attended the
event like would they have ever taken a
demo probably not
um but when you present value people are
more willing to engage and additionally
I would say like
it also opens the gates to prospects who
might already have a solution in place
um
and they might not be shopping for
software but they might be willing to
engage with you
and then last thing
um
this is obviously the first step in a
much larger relationship which does
result in meetings and revenue so in the
two years since the event we've sourced
over a million dollars from that event
and I think I'm taking up too much time
so I'm just going to conclude and say to
drive sustainable growth with brand
give your brand a job that serves anyone
uh partner with your entire organization
say no to other marketing goals knowing
that the impact of brand projects will
compound over time you just have to
trust it and you're never too small to
get started you don't need to put on
dreamforce in order to create something
that is really powerful
over you Betsy
thanks Chantel yeah
no go ahead Jesse sorry Betsy I just
realized that we had a lot of
participants kind of join in a little
bit late so Chantal if you could just
give a quick recap like maybe go back to
the beginning of the presentation and
just do a quick recap of everything you
discussed just for late participants
that would be amazing sure uh I think
this is probably the most important
slide and then the rest is just examples
um basically uh brand I think in order
for it to drive sustainable growth has
to serve a specific purpose that is you
know sort of counter-intuitively not
necessarily lead gen but you provide
value to anyone prospects customers
regardless of their status
um
and make sure you have full buy-in from
your leadership team because if you're
sacrificing Legion potentially and maybe
not seeing Roi for a while it's
important to be really clear on that
um and then yeah the best thing you can
do is to build something that serves
your audience
on its own
outside of your platform
I gave an example of an event we tried
to create value even if people weren't
customers and we sacrificed a lot in
order to bring it to life in a way that
was really authentic and really adhered
to our goal of helping people scale a
certain function even if they weren't a
customer
and we had some cool outcomes
okay Betsy
thanks Chantel uh yeah so Chantel
mentioned this earlier if you could hit
the slide one more
um that uh you know just looking at some
compounding tactics
um SEO is definitely one of those that
has a compounding effect uh and it will
work for you long after you've worked on
it
um another thing is marketers are
constantly looking to decrease their
customer acquisition cost
um you know how do we hit our goals and
also stay in budget
um if you if you build an SEO strategy
that works for you long term you you are
essentially creating an inbound lead
generation machine that just works for
you in the background
um long after you've worked on it so
that you don't have to spend money on
leads and other tactics
can you get the side
um so there's three major components to
SEO uh technical seo off-page seo and
SEO content so technoplastio is really
one of those things where like Google is
looking at you to make sure that you've
got your foundation in place
um are is your site ready to receive
traffic from them in their business they
want you know their customers to keep
coming back and searching and and
finding the right results that help them
um so they're looking for page load
times uh you know page speed are your
clickable links resulting in errors
um that sort of thing there's limited
impact there though because really it's
like you just should have your site
looking and feeling a certain way in
2022 otherwise Google's just not going
to show you show your site
um off-page SEO you can have a
tremendous amount of impact
with off-page SEO
um but it is really hard to scale it
because it's not in your control so if
you get third-party quality endorsements
of your brand through a clickable link
back to your site you will see the
results you will see
um an impact there but it's just really
hard for you to do that on your own you
can't say we're going to get three
really great third-party endorsements
um every week that's just not scalable a
lot of it's out of your control but with
content
um it will move the needle significantly
and the scale of it is in your control
you can you can scale it up as much as
you want scale is back scale it back as
much as you need to the scaling ability
there is is infinite because it is in
your control to produce content and
publish it on your site
I'm gonna hit the slide
um so we looked at
um customer our customers who have
created 50 plus piece of 50 or more
pieces of content
and the results were pretty incredible
um we saw that they saw on average a 280
increase in traffic a 440 increase in
Impressions and a 930 increase in
ranking keywords and 50 pieces of
content may feel like a lot
um but the reality is it's it's one
search optimized piece of content a week
um and you know that's not a whole lot
uh to see the results like our customers
have seen on average
get the slide
so I want to talk a little bit about
keyword research I think that a lot of
folks think of keyword research as being
this thing that you do so that Google
for Google you do this thing for Google
but the reality is is that keyword
research is audience research
um you know you're you're really trying
to meet your audience based on their
search intent and so your keyword
research should reflect that as well
um the way that we see most folks
searching is they search for a pain or a
problem they search for a solution and
their perceived solution at least and
then they also truly believe that
there's a solution out there that's like
perfect for them
um so so this you know on this slide you
can see the problem modifiers diversity
recruiting that's a problem that someone
is experiencing if you want to hit the
slide we then pair that with the
solution modifier so in SAS that'd be
you know platform system tool app
software solution Etc so diversity
recruiting software
diversity recruiting platform we put all
those combinations together and then
pair it also with a audience modifier if
you want to hit the slide real quick
um because people search like diversity
recruiting software for financial
services
all of those variations and combinations
of all of those different pains problem
Solutions and audience modifiers and
then we generate a list of real live
searched queries based on topical
relevancy to those modifiers that you
added in because that's what people
that's how people are searching we may
not search in a grammatically correct
kind of way but we certainly search for
our pains our perceived Solutions and
then our our specific things specific to
us
if you want to hit the slide so a couple
things that I just you know as as you
know you leave here I want you to think
about
um
create SEO content for people uh it's
you know Google is a system that works
for people uh and you want your content
to meet them there if someone's
searching for a guide give them a guide
if someone's searching for a question
give them an answer if someone's
searching for a platform give them a
demo
um and and then one of my favorite
questions is would you rather have a
million dollars today or would you
rather have a magic penny that doubles
daily for a month if you take the magic
or if you take the million dollars
you're a Millionaire on day one if you
take the penny you only have a penny on
day one but if you wait and you're
patient for the entire month at the end
of the month you could have nearly 11
million dollars if you take the Magic
Penny so two things create SEO content
for people
and don't delay doing it today and don't
delay do it today
that's all I got I love that I love that
magic penny analogy it's such a hard
thing for people to grasp and every
mistake that I've made in my career as a
marketing leader has been because it's
so easy we get we play this game of we
try to we prioritize the short-term
thing right now we're always chasing the
discorder thing but like multiple times
in my career I've seen like that if we
did but Betsy said and like actually the
way we could be growing 30 faster today
is if we planted those seeds two years
ago
um and I I can I can go through this
quickly because I know we're bumping up
against time but
um I've been I've seen now three times
at at drift at privy and now with uh
exit five of the power of building
building a community uh if you want to
just we can say on this slide actually
it's fine the power of building a
community and so it actually piggybacks
piggybacks perfectly off of what Betsy
was talking about which is I think
especially in B2B the way to win is
through education and entertainment and
it's it's why saster has grown to be
such a powerful brand in this space and
I think it's it's an advantage that you
can use typically inside of a B2B
company no one's starting that company
just for fun they are have some deep
expertise in an industry in a niche and
that all can be used to build a
community around professionals who want
to learn and grow and so a perfect
example was at drift I got hired there
six months before we even launched our
product and the mission in marketing was
don't worry about Revenue yet build an
audience and we actually the first thing
that one of the first things that we
launched was our podcast called seeking
wisdom which we were marked we were a
martech company seeking wisdom was not a
podcast about us talking about marketing
technology it was between David and I
who he's he's a CEO and founder and me
earlier in my career just kind of
talking about things we're doing books
we're reading uh lessons from from
building the company like observations
from from life and we we grew that
podcast to 50 000 downloads and we never
talked about marketing it happened to be
two people that work at drift and we
happen to host this podcast and that led
to us building this initial audience and
by the time we were ready to launch we
had this podcast audience we had 3 000
people on a waiting list and we got to
reach out and say hey Chantel you've
been you've been listening to us for the
last six months
um we got some actually exciting news to
tell you uh and that's we're launching a
SAS product here's what it is and we
drove our first initial business from
that and uh the community part of drift
eventually more from going from online
to in person where we did a conference
the very first year of the company we
had a thousand people show up in person
and that was the moment like being in
the in the room that day to to feel the
power of community Beyond you know SEO
is great blogging is great content is
great but there's just something
different about like when people are in
the same room together and that was an
extension of that online community and I
think even today you don't have to win
with you don't have to have the biggest
podcast you don't have to have the
biggest social media channels how can
you win with a unique angle uh and
something that is interesting or
different for your for your core
audience if you want to go the next
slide for a second and then at privy we
took a different angle with that where
previous selling to small businesses who
really wanted
um education about marketing that they
they weren't going to get on their own
and so we started a podcast but this was
a daily podcast hosted by Ben who's a
CEO he did a five to ten minute daily
episode with one really tactical tip
that that show is so easy to produce for
him because this is all the stuff he was
thinking and doing already and that led
to this podcast that had 250 000
downloads in the first year uh and this
this loyal audience of operators in
e-commerce and doing marketing who are
listening to Ben's podcast every day
they start to associate Ben with the
brand they see him as an expert in the
industry this gave us an audience that
we didn't have outside of the
traditional channels and I think so
often when we do marketing we like to go
and run to the quick fixes and I'm not
saying there's anything wrong with paid
advertising or outbound you have to do
those things especially as you sell to
Enterprise you have to do outbound but I
don't I still think we underrate the
ability to build your own audience today
that is what marketing is about you have
all these channels that you didn't have
you don't have to wait for Forbes or
TechCrunch or pay some PR agency 20
grand to write about you you can do this
on your own channels and it has many
benefits Beyond a direct response uh
marketing and many SEO benefits like to
Betsy's stuff that she just went through
and then if you go to the one last site
I'm feeling this again firsthand with
with exit five where
um it's a community in a niche where it
works because it's very clearly focused
on helping B2B marketers learn more
about B2B marketing it just once again
is retelling this like people want to
connect with each other uh we're not
selling any software and so it's like
working really well because there's no
incentive to like try to sell into the
audience but I think if you can take
that back to your company and think hey
how can we create a place for our ideal
customers to hang out online like
regardless of whether we were there or
not and then can we facilitate that for
them I think it's a it's a great
approach and if you want to just go the
last slide I can wrap this up with this
thought which is like if we're talking
about sustainability today
um not not to be like use a corny
analogy but like no there's nothing more
sustainable than like growing your own
food right so like can you plant the
season especially now in the next six
months like a lot of companies buying
and slowing down maybe you're you're you
know Revenue expectations are are held
back a little bit you're not under
pressure to deliver the hardcore Revenue
right now because things are a little
bit slower well how can you use that
time to invest in these things that are
going to pay off six months 12 months
two years down the road and so there's
nothing more sustainable than building
your own audience as opposed to always
having to rely on external sources it
goes back to inbound marketing which
we've talked about forever it goes back
to to earned media all those things
relate to the the power of building a
community
the end the end yeah I love that I also
love what you said about like oh shoot
we should have started a year ago like
the reason that we had events at such an
early stage at Maestro was because Jason
levkin one of our investors told us like
it's never too early just get started
like don't hold yourself back you know
and I think you need to have the you
know oftentimes like it's you need to
have that permission from from an
investor an advisor a c like I was lucky
to work with David at drift and Ben at
privy who both believed in this and were
like this is how I communicate and
interact with people online like of
course we have to do this for our
company but sometimes we don't we don't
take that lens and so I didn't have to
like justify or try to Value validate
like well how you know what's the ROI of
us doing a podcast because they both
believed in like the the long-term
approach and and they paid off and I'm
not saying this is going to work for
everybody uh the advice don't don't
immediately go start a podcast but I
think it's this type of thinking which
is like hmm what what channels can we
create where we can really we can build
our own audience as opposed to always
having to spend to go and get people's
attention
I think also like you make a really
interesting point about getting
executive buy-in because I've been in so
many situations where like in my mystery
example like the founders were really
all in on this approach and currently at
demand well like we're an SEO company so
you know the founders understand that
SEO takes time and it's okay if you
don't see results right away
um but that's definitely just like a
universal challenge for marketers I
think is like how do you manage up in
situations where you're doing things
that have results now but you also are
doing things that are not going to have
results for a long time no that's
definitely a tricky thing I think you
just got to think of it like a
ultimately you're a portfolio manager
where your your job is not to invest
entirely in like uh you know super low
risk things and that are super you have
to be able to support your thinking and
so like I think 70 to 70 30 or 60 40 is
a good way to think about like how do I
split how much is happening today you
know how much I'm thinking about today
versus the future because it gets tough
it's like next year you're going to be
planning for 2024 and you're gonna be
like shoot I wish I did those two things
but it's like it's never ending and you
have to make the hard decision to like
to to do this inside of your company or
else it's never going to work yeah
totally
um we have a really good question here
uh with so much noise across so many
channels how do marketers break through
to reach their target audience
um
make a LinkedIn video of just like
lighting a bunch of money on fire and
use that as your ad creation
do something insane I'll answer that one
sec but uh somebody asked 60 40
immediate results or future or the other
way around I would say 60 40 60 focus on
today it's probably more like 70 on
today and 30 on the on the future uh
with so much noise how can how can you
break through and reach their target
audience well I
there's no like secret hack for this
because the only way it works is like a
deep understanding of your ideal
customer and so I I have this
conversation with myself all the time
I'm like how and I how did exit 5 grow
to be a 3 000 person like paid community
and I'm like oh well it's because I
spent the last decade working in this in
this world and so I kind of have a
better sense than most about like what
what ideas are interesting to people
right think about saster perfect example
Jason Lem can spend his career in SAS a
new B2B SAS and so like what types of
content what things are people
interested so I think it starts with
like a a baseline level of like what is
your ideal customer what keeps them up
at night who influences them what are uh
what what blogs and what what websites
are they reading what books are they
reading what podcasts are they listening
to who are they following on Tick Tock
and YouTube and like starting to do an
assessment about like where are they
getting information from and then what
can your unique angle be to to do that
maybe it's like you're gonna have a much
like I think um
Amanda and ran fishkin what they're
doing at sparktoro is a great example of
good content marketing right now where
it's like in a world where blog posts
have become very like kind of bite size
they're going a little bit deeper and
doing long form stuff that's very
tactical like okay we're gonna win like
that but that starts with a deep
understanding of the of the customer or
like assessing all the channels being
like hmm a lot of people are talking
about SEO but no one in demand Wells
Niche has really figured out like
YouTube and YouTube shorts yet and we're
gonna go bet on that channel and so I
think it's like this layering of like
knowing what they care about and then
figuring out how you can insert yourself
from a Content standpoint and figuring
out like what is what is the hook going
to be and what channels are you going to
play on and ideally it's it's one core
channel to to start right it's like when
you try to take it take this approach
and try to like yeah we're gonna be on
YouTube and we're gonna do a podcast and
we're gonna do webinars and we're gonna
do this you gotta pick one or two things
I think if you look back at the brands
who've done this really well
like gong Focus almost entirely on
LinkedIn for a bunch of years and I
think that paid off really well as
opposed to trying to like spread things
everywhere
yeah I agree I think regardless of the
channel it's really just about like what
is the audience hungry for in that place
and that's the reason why events were so
impactful for Maestro was basically that
like
the quality assurance professionals that
we served were really hungry for
Gathering and learning from each other
um you know and so we gave them that
um give the people what they want
oh I was just gonna say I think that
um you know using search and like uh as
an example is like create a section on
your site that's dedicated to those
specific Industries and you know make
sure that you're focusing in on the
content that you put in place that that
is aligned with who they really are who
that who that core audience is
um and and and have them come to you you
know if you if you work specifically
with B2B then get a whole lot of content
on your site around around that specific
audience make sure that you also are
showing up
um for your audience to be there
I really like this question how do you
balance sustainable approaches with the
need for immediate results it's it kind
of gets back to the portfolio concept
that day was talking about where like
yeah I go ahead yeah I think typically I
think typically like that question to me
is asking like my boss how do I explain
that to my boss or the CFO or whoever
and I think that this is where you have
to be able to like present about the
marketing strategy and so you're like
look my job in marketing is not just to
manage this Channel today but I'm
thinking long terms same way the CFO and
the CEO are thinking about the one three
five seven year plan for the company
like I think you got to level up how you
talk about marketing inside of the
company if you only talk about
short-term things and people are going
to only expect short-term things but if
you're like hey look you might need to
I've done this at companies you might
need to go in and be like this is how we
should think about marketing today it's
a portfolio where in year one yes we
would need to hit these goals here's
what we're going to try to do to that
but we also need to lay the foundation
for the future I think it comes back to
like you have to be able to present on
your marketing strategy and show people
if they don't see it you have to show
them this and you know it's all the
stuff that like it's literally like
mapping out the equation that that Betsy
put down about the Magic Penny it's like
having that conversation you have to be
able to articulate your marketing
strategy and tell people why it can't
just be short-term things and I found
that if you're working with the cro or
VPS sales or whoever they can be pretty
rational in that moment if they can see
the light at the end of the tunnel it's
like when you're missing the number for
this quarter and they have no idea what
the heck the future marketing plan is
that that's a really tough position to
be in but I've I've worked with VPS
sales they're like yeah we understand if
this channel is not going to be turned
on for now but six months from now
you're gonna be it's gonna be an amazing
new thing for us and I think you you can
get people to buy in that way
totally I've also had really good luck
like in communicating with our CFO about
budget about what we're spending money
on it's like
it would be impossible for us to hit our
goals next year if we're just doing what
we're doing today so we need to be
putting money in the bank that will be
reaping the rewards of in the future
like we couldn't afford to drive what we
need to drive because of how high the
growth curves are for SAS businesses
it's and it's not something like magic
machine that just like when you're ready
you put money into it and like it prints
you out customers you have to figure out
channels and offers and strategies and
you have to be able to test into those
things and so you need bud you need you
need time and budget to do it now before
you need it
yep yeah I mean if you look at the the
Magic Penny example
um if you if you just waited 15 days
by the end of the month to accept that
magic many by the end of the month you'd
only have 163 dollars so it's like you
know the compounding effect is really it
really happens you know after a lot of
hard work that you put into it but it is
significant
[Music]
thank you